# HOWTO
Here are the basic elements to make the magic happen...

1.  Lay out your systems in the editor.
    - Create internal systems for the switches that Apstra will manage.
    - Create external systems for hosts and other devices that will connect
      to the edge of the fabric.
    - Apply system tags to the internal systems to identify leaf and spine
      devices.  These tags should be named "leaf" for leaf devices and
      "spine" for spine devices.

2.  Connect your devices.
    - Fabric links must include the tag "fab_link".
    - Host-facing links must include either the "mode_access" or
      "mode_trunk" tags to differentiate untagged vs. tagged interfaces.
    - Tag the host-facing links with tags to represent the VLANs you
      want assigned to each host-facing link.  So if you're going to name
      a VLAN "vlan_100" in your property set (we'll discuss that later on),
      then you need a tag named "vlan_100" applied to the appropriate
      host interface.
    
    NOTE:  Where you have Link Aggregation Goups (LAGs) composed of one
           or more member links, the tags must be applied to the Aggregated
           link, and not the member links.

3.  Create the following Allocation Groups to be used in the model:
    - "ASN Pool" of Type ASN
        This is what we'll use to dynamically assign ASN's to each
        internal system.
    - "Loopbacks" of Type IPv6
        Used to generate IPv6 addresses for lo0.0 on each internal system.
    - "Fabric Links" of Type IPv6
        Used to generate IPv6 addresses for the fabric interfaces.
    - "RIDv4" of Type IPv4
        Used to generate 32-bit router ID's for each internal system.
    - "LACP System IDs" of Type Integer
        Use low values for integers (e.g., 1-4094).  We'll use these values
        to generate ESI and LACP System ID values.

4.  Under Resource Management, create the following:
    - Group named "fabric_resources" under Root.
    - Group named "lacp" under Root.
    - Group generator named "devices" under fabric_resources.
        Scope: node('system', system_type='internal', name='target')
    - Resource generator named "asn_assignments" under
      Root/fabric_resources/devices
        - Scope:  node('system', system_type='internal', name='target')
        - Allocation Group:  ASN Pool
    - Resource generator named "loopback_assignments" under
      Root/fabric_resources/devices
        - Scope:  node('system', system_type='internal', name='target')
        - Allocation Group:  Loopbacks
    - Resource generator named "router_id" under Root/fabric_resources/devices
       -  Scope:  node('system', system_type='internal', name='target')
        - Allocation Group:  RIDv4
    - Resource generator named "Fabric Link Addressing" under
      Root/fabric_resources
        - Scope:  node('link', role='internal', name='target')
        - Allocation Group:  Fabric Links
    - Resource generator named "lacp_system_ids" under Root/lacp
        - Scope:
            match(
                node('system', name='system', system_type='internal')
                    .out('hosted_interfaces')
                    .node('interface', if_type='port_channel', name='system_interface')
                    .in_('composed_of')
                    .node('interface', name='target')
            )
        - Allocation group:  esi_ids

5.  Now import the Config Templates and Property Sets from this repo.
    You will need to edit the property sets for your specific blueprint.
    - common_sys_properties: Basic settings under the `[edit system]` container.
    - filter_properties: Basic control for setting up Junos firewall filters.
    - interface_properties: Set MTU for fabric interfaces, host interfaces,
        and IRB interfaces.
    - protocol_properties: Default settings for use with BGP, OSPF, etc.
    - snmo_properties: Configuration settings for SNMP
    - vrf_vlan: Define the routing zones (VRF's) and VLAN's assigned to each.

    If you're shy about generating the vrf_vlan Property Set by hand, there's
    now a sample Excel spreadsheet and Python tool to generate proper JSON for
    the Property Set automatically.  The files are in the support folder.
    All you need to do is:
    - Copy the file vrf_vlan_example.xls to vrf_vlan.xls.
    - Make changes to vrf_vlan.xls to reflect your environment.  Just keep the
      formatting consistent with what's in the example.
    - Run the Python tool.  It will generate the JSON you need.
    - Create the vrf_vlan Property Set in your blueprint, or edit the PS if
      you've already created it.  Select JSON format and set the Input Type
      to Editor.
    - Paste in the contents of the vrf_vlan.json that was generated by the
      Python tool.  Just click in the Values field and to `ctrl-A ctrl-V` to
      paste the data.  Then click Update.

6.  At this point, you should be able to generate configs.  I strongly
    suggest testing via the `ctrl-C : load replace terminal : ctrl-V` method
    to start.  Once you're confident that the configs are being generated
    correctly, you can push the commit through Apstra.


GOOD LUCK!!!
    